>> Mike North: How do we know
if we're vulnerable or not?
You are vulnerable if your server looks
to a cookie sent along with the request,
or basic authentication credentials
sent along with the request,
in order to authenticate or
authorize a user.
Authenticate would be
like this is who you are.
Authorize would be these
are the privileges that you have.
Like are you as a user able
to view this resource?
So the exception here would
be a client side cookie.
So if, for example,
if you pluck something out of a cookie
that then needs to be placed
into a request header.
That is the kind of thing that
is not susceptible to
a Cross-Site Request Forgery.
So here's why.
In order to read that cookie,
you need to be running code on
a domain that can access that cookie.
Web storage is partitioned
on a per domain basis.
So if you're using the cookie
as a storage mechanism only.
And if the server,
when it receives a request is not looking
at that cookie as the means of identifying
the user, then this method of
attack doesn't work any more.
This attack works because I can write code
on my site that will make a request to
someone else's site.
And although I can't read those cookies,
I take advantage of the fact that
the cookies are sent along for the ride.
I actually can't see any communication
between the user and that remote server,
but I can basically trick them into
mutating data into changing something.
So as soon as the methodology
of authenticating a user
depends on something that only code
running on that domain can perform,
such as placing a value in
a authorization header,
you're in the clear here.
You are, I gotta be careful about saying
you're in the clear in a security course,
but you have mitigated the broadest
form of this kind of attack.
Local storage and session storage, these
are accessible only on the client side.
If you don't know the difference,
session storage,
that is when the user logs out,
that's destroyed, right?
When they close the browser,
that's destroyed.
Sorry, it's not log out,
it's close the browser.
Local storage can live for much longer.
Neither of these are passed along by
default with each request as cookies are.
>> Mike North: So
one typical mechanism for
solving this is to create
something called a CSRF token.
And this, like the cryptographic
nonsense we talked about earlier,
they are generated in an unpredictable
way with each page load.
So basically, the server knows that
these are the keys that I've generated.
It might be that if we think about
a simplistic definition it could be,
it generates numbers but
they have to meet a certain condition,
like they're divisible by 67,
5, 812, and 1,984.
Only if it meets that condition, we can
generate many numbers that meet that
condition, but we have some way of
verifying that yes, that is a genuine one.
And they are disposable,
meaning you can only use them once and
then that CSRF token value
is not usable again.
So typically you want to have an iterative
algorithm that generates new ones.
And you can basically say that this is
almost treated like a monotonically
increasing value, where you go one,
two, three, four, five.
And you can basically read into
the value of this token and
say, nope, that's too old.
So sometimes it's like a salt.
That is,
it is a secure value generated for
that server combined with a time stamp or
a counter so
that you can ensure these do not
get reused over and over again.
I like to think of this kind of like,
it is
like two factor authentication in
that you have two pieces involved.
One proving that you are authenticated,
right?
That cookie was not something
that anyone can fake.
You get a cookie by logging
in as a legitimate user.
We could even encrypt the cookie, right?
And say only the server can
make sense of this thing.
And then the second piece, it basically
proves that you came from code
running on that origin that is intended
to make requests to the back end.
Something that only code running
in on that domain could do,
because it's reaching into local storage,
or it's reading something from a meta tag.
These are things that we talked
about opaque requests earlier.
These are things that you would not be
able to see because an opaque request
would not let the attacker's
code see that kind of thing.